README.md, before:

# FuelSim
This single-file mini-library is a lightweight fuel physics simulation. It handles fuel-fuel, fuel-field, fuel-net, and fuel-robot collisions as well as projectile motion and scoring in the hub. There is also included functionality for intakes. It's not a perfect analog of real life, as some of the parameters need to be tuned (namely the coefficients of restitution of various collisions), but it is close enough for simulation purposes. I built this using AdvantageKit's built-in logging, but it can easily be modified to use any logging method by swapping out a single line of code.
## Demo
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b0a20c8-bec2-441b-a4a5-fdaee0f9cb8c

## Usage
### Installation
Simply copy over FuelSim.java into your project!
### Setup
All measurements are in meters. Logging is done automatically when updateSim is called.

Put this directly in Robot.java:
```java
@Override
public void simulationPeriodic() {
    FuelSim.getInstance().updateSim();
}
```
These are functions you can put in RobotContainer.java (or elsewhere) that should be run on initialization. Don't copy over this entire code block. Instead, copy the individual lines you want. You can see an example of what setup could look like down below.
```java
FuelSim.getInstance(); // gets singleton instance of FuelSim
FuelSim.getInstance().spawnStartingFuel(); // spawns fuel in the depots and neutral zone

// Register a robot for collision with fuel
FuelSim.getInstance().registerRobot(
        width, // from left to right
        length, // from front to back
        bumperHeight, // from floor to top of bumpers
        poseSupplier, // Supplier<Pose2d> of robot pose
        fieldSpeedsSupplier); // Supplier<ChassisSpeeds> of field-centric chassis speeds

// Register an intake to remove fuel from the field as a rectangular bounding box
FuelSim.getInstance().registerIntake(
        minX, maxX, minY, maxY, // robot-centric coordinates for bounding box
        shouldIntakeSupplier, // (optional) BooleanSupplier for whether the intake should be active at a given moment
        callback); // (optional) Runnable called whenever a fuel is intaked

FuelSim.getInstance().setSubticks(int subticks); // sets the number of physics iterations to perform per 20ms loop. Default = 5

FuelSim.getInstance().start(); // enables the simulation to run (updateSim must still be called periodically)
FuelSim.getInstance().stop(); // stops the simulation running (updateSim will do nothing until start is called again)
```
### While Running
These are methods you can call while the program is running.
```java
FuelSim.getInstance().stepSim(); // steps the simulation forward by 20ms, regardless of start/stop state
FuelSim.getInstance().spawnFuel(Translation3d pos, Translation3d vel); // spawns a fuel with a given position and velocity (both field centric, represented as vectors by Translation3d)
FuelSim.getInstance().clearFuel(); // clears all fuel from the field

FuelSim.Hub.BLUE_HUB.getScore(); // get number of fuel scored in blue hub
FuelSim.Hub.RED_HUB.getScore(); // get number of fuel scored in red hub
FuelSim.Hub.[BLUE/RED]_HUB.resetScore(); // resets the score of the blue/red hub

```
### Non-AdvantageKit logging:
If you don't use AdvantageKit, replace the `logFuels` method in FuelSim.java with this:
```java
    private StructArrayPublisher<Translation3d> fuelPublisher = NetworkTableInstance.getDefault()
            .getStructArrayTopic("Fuel Simulation/Fuels", Translation3d.struct)
            .publish();
    
    /**
     * Adds array of `Translation3d`'s to NetworkTables at "/Fuel Simulation/Fuels"
     */
    public void logFuels() {
        fuelPublisher.set(fuels.stream().map((fuel) -> fuel.pos).toArray(Translation3d[]::new));
    }
```
## Example Usage (as seen in demo)
In RobotContainer.java (to be called in constructor):
```java
private void configureFuelSim() {
    FuelSim instance = FuelSim.getInstance();
    instance.spawnStartingFuel();
    instance.registerRobot(
            Dimensions.FULL_WIDTH.in(Meters),
            Dimensions.FULL_LENGTH.in(Meters),
            Dimensions.BUMPER_HEIGHT.in(Meters),
            drive::getPose,
            drive::getFieldSpeeds);
    instance.registerIntake(
            -Dimensions.FULL_LENGTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            Dimensions.FULL_LENGTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            -Dimensions.FULL_WIDTH.div(2).plus(Inches.of(7)).in(Meters),
            -Dimensions.FULL_WIDTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            () -> intake.isRightDeployed() && turret.simAbleToIntake(),
            turret::simIntake);
    instance.registerIntake(
            -Dimensions.FULL_LENGTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            Dimensions.FULL_LENGTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            Dimensions.FULL_WIDTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            Dimensions.FULL_WIDTH.div(2).plus(Inches.of(7)).in(Meters),
            () -> intake.isLeftDeployed() && turret.simAbleToIntake(),
            turret::simIntake);

    instance.start();
    SmartDashboard.putData(Commands.runOnce(() -> {
                FuelSim.getInstance().clearFuel();
                FuelSim.getInstance().spawnStartingFuel();
            })
            .withName("Reset Fuel")
            .ignoringDisable(true));
}
```

In TurretVisualizer.java (called repeatedly):
```java
public void launchFuel(LinearVelocity vel, Angle angle) {
    if (fuelStored == 0) return;
    fuelStored--;
    Pose3d robot = poseSupplier.get();

    Translation3d initialPosition = robot.getTranslation();
    FuelSim.getInstance().spawnFuel(initialPosition, launchVel(vel, angle));
}
```

Commit message:

Update README for trench collisions

README.md, after:

# FuelSim
This single-file mini-library is a lightweight fuel physics simulation. It handles fuel-fuel, fuel-field, fuel-net, fuel-trench, and fuel-robot collisions as well as projectile motion (ignoring air resistance) and scoring in the hub. There is also included functionality for intakes. It's not a perfect analog of real life, as some of the parameters need to be tuned (namely the coefficients of restitution of various collisions), but it is close enough for simulation purposes. I built this using AdvantageKit's built-in logging, but it can easily be modified to use any logging method as demonstrated below.
## Demo
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b0a20c8-bec2-441b-a4a5-fdaee0f9cb8c

## Usage
### Installation
Simply copy over FuelSim.java into your project! If you put it somewhere other than a "utils" folder, make sure to edit the package name at the top of the file.
### Setup
All measurements are in meters. Logging is done automatically when updateSim is called.

Put this directly in Robot.java:
```java
@Override
public void simulationPeriodic() {
    FuelSim.getInstance().updateSim();
}
```
These are functions you can put in RobotContainer.java (or elsewhere) that should be run on initialization. Don't copy over this entire code block. Instead, copy the individual lines you want. You can see an example of what setup could look like down below.
```java
FuelSim.getInstance(); // gets singleton instance of FuelSim
FuelSim.getInstance().spawnStartingFuel(); // spawns fuel in the depots and neutral zone

// Register a robot for collision with fuel
FuelSim.getInstance().registerRobot(
        width, // from left to right
        length, // from front to back
        bumperHeight, // from floor to top of bumpers
        poseSupplier, // Supplier<Pose2d> of robot pose
        fieldSpeedsSupplier); // Supplier<ChassisSpeeds> of field-centric chassis speeds

// Register an intake to remove fuel from the field as a rectangular bounding box
FuelSim.getInstance().registerIntake(
        minX, maxX, minY, maxY, // robot-centric coordinates for bounding box
        shouldIntakeSupplier, // (optional) BooleanSupplier for whether the intake should be active at a given moment
        callback); // (optional) Runnable called whenever a fuel is intaked

FuelSim.getInstance().setSubticks(int subticks); // sets the number of physics iterations to perform per 20ms loop. Default = 5

FuelSim.getInstance().start(); // enables the simulation to run (updateSim must still be called periodically)
FuelSim.getInstance().stop(); // stops the simulation running (updateSim will do nothing until start is called again)
```
### While Running
These are methods you can call while the program is running.
```java
FuelSim.getInstance().stepSim(); // steps the simulation forward by 20ms, regardless of start/stop state
FuelSim.getInstance().spawnFuel(Translation3d pos, Translation3d vel); // spawns a fuel with a given position and velocity (both field centric, represented as vectors by Translation3d)
FuelSim.getInstance().clearFuel(); // clears all fuel from the field

FuelSim.Hub.BLUE_HUB.getScore(); // get number of fuel scored in blue hub
FuelSim.Hub.RED_HUB.getScore(); // get number of fuel scored in red hub
FuelSim.Hub.[BLUE/RED]_HUB.resetScore(); // resets the score of the blue/red hub

```
### Non-AdvantageKit logging:
If you don't use AdvantageKit, replace the `logFuels` method in FuelSim.java with this:
```java
    private StructArrayPublisher<Translation3d> fuelPublisher = NetworkTableInstance.getDefault()
            .getStructArrayTopic("Fuel Simulation/Fuels", Translation3d.struct)
            .publish();
    
    /**
     * Adds array of `Translation3d`'s to NetworkTables at "/Fuel Simulation/Fuels"
     */
    public void logFuels() {
        fuelPublisher.set(fuels.stream().map((fuel) -> fuel.pos).toArray(Translation3d[]::new));
    }
```
## Example Usage (as seen in demo)
In RobotContainer.java (to be called in constructor):
```java
private void configureFuelSim() {
    FuelSim instance = FuelSim.getInstance();
    instance.spawnStartingFuel();
    instance.registerRobot(
            Dimensions.FULL_WIDTH.in(Meters),
            Dimensions.FULL_LENGTH.in(Meters),
            Dimensions.BUMPER_HEIGHT.in(Meters),
            drive::getPose,
            drive::getFieldSpeeds);
    instance.registerIntake(
            -Dimensions.FULL_LENGTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            Dimensions.FULL_LENGTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            -Dimensions.FULL_WIDTH.div(2).plus(Inches.of(7)).in(Meters),
            -Dimensions.FULL_WIDTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            () -> intake.isRightDeployed() && turret.simAbleToIntake(),
            turret::simIntake);
    instance.registerIntake(
            -Dimensions.FULL_LENGTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            Dimensions.FULL_LENGTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            Dimensions.FULL_WIDTH.div(2).in(Meters),
            Dimensions.FULL_WIDTH.div(2).plus(Inches.of(7)).in(Meters),
            () -> intake.isLeftDeployed() && turret.simAbleToIntake(),
            turret::simIntake);

    instance.start();
    SmartDashboard.putData(Commands.runOnce(() -> {
                FuelSim.getInstance().clearFuel();
                FuelSim.getInstance().spawnStartingFuel();
            })
            .withName("Reset Fuel")
            .ignoringDisable(true));
}
```

In TurretVisualizer.java (called repeatedly):
```java
public void launchFuel(LinearVelocity vel, Angle angle) {
    if (fuelStored == 0) return;
    fuelStored--;
    Pose3d robot = poseSupplier.get();

    Translation3d initialPosition = robot.getTranslation();
    FuelSim.getInstance().spawnFuel(initialPosition, launchVel(vel, angle));
}
```
